# LITA_Capstone_Project
This is where I will be documenting the progress of my final project analysis throughout the Incubator Hub Data Analysis training program.


### Project Title: Sales Data and Customer Data Analysis.

### Project Overview:

This project is aimed at analysing the Sales and Customer data to uncover key trends and actionable insights. The goal is to evaluate how the company is fairing now in terms of their sales trend, Customer retention and to provide data-driven recommendations to improve the company’s sales performance and Customer's retention in the coming years.

### Data Source: 
The primary data used here is an open source data sub file downloaded from the LITA_Capstone_Data. csv file which was downloaded from the Incubator Hub Learning Management System. It consists of the Sales Data file and Customer Data File.

### Tools Used
- Microsoft Excel [Download here](https://www.microsoft.com)
 1. For Data Cleaning.
 2. For Analysis.
 3. For Visualization.

- Structured Query Language(SQL)
 1. For Querying the dataset.
 2. Cleaning the Dataset.

- PowerBI [Download here](https://www.microsoft.com)
 1. For portfolio building.


### Exploratory Data Analysis

This data is analysed to answer the following Sales trend and revenue generating questions:

- Which product generated the most revenue in terms of sales in 2023 and 2024
- The total revenue generated by the products across various regions in 2023 and 2024
- The average unit of product sold in the various regions.
- The product with the top sales.

  ### Sales Data Analysis

  The data set was cleaned using Microsoft Excel and the following functions were used to calculate Total Revenue, Average Revenue of the products,

   Total Revenue : =(Unit Price * Quantity) [Enter]
  
  Average Revenue: =AVERAGEIF( Range , criteria,[average range]) [Enter]

  The pivot table was used to summarize the sales data to discover some trends.

  

